Many many startups just already being
built on top of the robot just you know
they want to build something they have
this idea of of a manual test they can
automate or they have an idea of
something they could do in the physical
world and then they take the robot they
take already like the basic building
blocks we've shipped which is just a
robotic a very simple robotic arm s 100
that we designed basically to be the
cheapest robotic arm to be $100 and
they're already like trying to start
business around this at the bottom you
know it's the uging face etos which is
you bring all these platform, all these
basic building blocks for people to
build really crazy things on top. And
robotics is the same goal for us.
[Music]
In this episode, we interview Thomas
Wolf, co-founder and chief science
officer of HuggingFace, the largest open
source community for AI. Thomas has
consistently predicted the future, and
he's responsible for why HuggingFace
invested heavily behind transformers and
language models enabling the LLM wave a
handful of years ago. Now he sees the
same opportunity for robotics and
physical AI and is helping to shepherd
Hugging Face's low robot project which
brings together policy models, data
sets, and physical embodiment to help
developers everywhere become roboticists
across a diversity of use cases and form
factors. We're excited to chat with
Thomas about the robotics explosion, the
bottlenecks ahead for physical AI, the
US versus China in the open model race,
and a lot more. Enjoy the show.
Thomas, in your role at Hugging Face,
you help Hugging Face invest behind
Moonshots as the chief science officer,
one or two years ahead of the field. Uh,
you mentioned to me last time we chatted
that, you know, you have a spidey sense
that we're at the same moment for
robotics today that we were for
transformers and language models a
handful of years ago. Tell us what
you're seeing.
>> Yeah, I think I think honestly it
started two years ago. I mean, we
started we started our activities in
robotics 18 months ago. Uh and I think
at this time there was a couple of
breakthrough out of I mean these labs
you know where right Stanford and
basically these teams were starting to
show robots that were able to tie notes,
fold clothes uh you know cook like threw
things in the air on a pan and grab
them. And basically all of these thing
uh with in in one way very little data
but also with also good perspective to
be able to leverage some of the world
models and thing like that that we see
you know really benefit from from
internet size data. So all of this kind
of pointed to uh a short future where
robotics were going to work in a way
like hardware was already there and in
my opinion has been there for quite some
time but the missing brick was really
software that could adapt that could be
dynamic all of that and we started to
see that and that's why we started to
work on the robot yeah a little bit more
than than 18 months ago and I think for
us the success of the robot like seeing
like this huge community for us the big
bet was can you build a big community in
robotics as well. There were small
community of kind of hobbies like or
people very seriously building robots
for like you know factory lines but it
was kind of a like a tiny vertical in my
opinion. The question was could you move
this tiny vertical to like a full
horizontal thing just like nowadays
every software developer is kind of an
AI researcher almost they all want to
know how you know LLM works how you
train them and there's this very smooth
transition where the 100 200 million
software developer are becoming kind of
AI AI aware and I think there is a
potential future transition where all of
these people also become roboticist in a
way if you give them the tools so that
was kind of our goal so we started with
with the software library and the
success of that kind of brought us to
also try to go in hardware which is
which is a big question as well and
that's why we acquired first hardware
company this year Poland Robotics and
and we shipped our at least we opened
the orders for our first robots that was
mid July so that's one month ago really
and this went crazy
>> can you tell us what love robot is
>> of course yeah so l robot is is our
attempt of uh you know doing again the
success of of transformer reproducing
the success of transformers library in
in the robot IC field. So this idea is a
having kind of a central library that
everyone would use and that would bring
in a in a very simple and accessible and
easy way all the latest technology, all
the latest algorithm that people use to
train robots efficiently, all the latest
data set that they use to train this and
also connect this to actuators which is
the hardware part of robotics. And
that's this this intersection and this
mix of of of three aspect the policy the
models the data set and the hardware
which we try to combine in the robot.
How does the role of hugging face change
in robotics? You know for people
building in the physical world does
hugging face play the same role or a
different role than hugging face has
played for people building in the
digital world with LMS? I mean our goal
is to play the same role which at a very
very high level is building communities
and bringing people you know in this
idea that AI can be open source and
there it's not something you only
consume but it's something you can tweak
you can train you can control you can
host where you want and actually hosting
where you want is even more important in
robotics because in a future where you
have robots everywhere you kind of want
a lot of these models to run locally
because if your robots lose connection
to the Wi-Fi or something and then run
in the wall or maybe I don't know run in
your kids. It's going to be much more
dramatic than you know just an LLM
alinating. So safety question in
robotics I think are a good reason you
may want to really be able to not you
know depend on the distant API but have
the models as possible to the hardware.
So I would say our role is maybe even
more important for safety and and future
of robotics than it than it is in in L1.
>> Could you say a word on the size of the
community you have at Liverot? How many
people are building? How many people are
contributing data sets and things like
that?
>> Yeah, for sure. Should have checked
actually the latest number because it's
it's exponentially growing. So, it's
several thousand people. I would say uh
six to 10,000. One event we did, you
know, a couple of months ago, we did a
hackathon which was worldwide. We had a
100 location in over six continents. So,
I would say it's still it's still not in
the million of people for sure, but it's
way above several thousand people. And
the main indicator for us is uh we can
measure the number of data sets for
instance on the hub and what we see in
all of these thing number of community
members or data set we see kind of this
exponential growth which is I think a
very good indication that we're on on
the right track and you have to keep in
mind that the hardware that's available
right now is still very much kind of a
hobbyist hardware so it's like 3D
printed harms it's like that they still
wired everywhere and that's why starting
this summer we wanted to bring much more
mass market hardware I would say. So
something that would you know interest
not only the the the hacker and the
people who are used to to plug cables
everywhere but also everyone in families
something that look much more polished.
>> What's the persona of developers in your
robot community? And I'm curious how
it's the same or different from the
people that have traditionally been
building you know like controls
classical based systems.
>> I would say there's three three type of
personnel. I mean one is the the
traditional roboticists they definitely
want to use AI. So for a lot of them
they know how to build hardware they
know what they can use but they've been
frustrated by you know the limitation of
the software stack all the optimal
control models and all these are very
limiting what you can do. So all of
these are people who have really happily
joined the bandagan and we see many we
see the same effect we saw in
transformers which is many academic labs
starting to use robots because it's it's
it's a very nice entry point for all the
students and so and so this has been
growing very strongly. The second
community is is is much more interesting
in my opinion. It's people who were not
really into robotics but because they
they they're into AI and robotics looks
like a physical manifestation of AI they
kind of want to go into robotics and so
these people that covers I would say
software developer but even people who
are just interested in robotics. So I a
good example talking here it's
interesting but a lot a lot of investor
have actually bought you know so 100's
arm and just to you know to try to
understand physically what is this
robotic thing what can it do and because
it seems so accessible you get the arm
and and the software is just a python
code and now you know with a little bit
of vibe coding you can actually even
even tweak it or control it quite easily
you know we see people who who I mean
maybe are not you know purely technical
but who want to understand what's
happening in robotics and they use this
entry point which is low robots
So you can vibe code the robot.
>> Yeah, that's really my goal. Yeah. So
you can already do that a little bit,
but for the new robots rich Mini, I
definitely want this to be, you know,
one of the easiest way to use. I would
love my kids to be able to vibe code
behavior on the robots.
>> What sort of phase of maturity do you
think we're in for the robotics market
at large?
>> You know, like when when will we have a
chat GPT moment in the world of
robotics?
>> Yeah, that's that's the thing I'm
looking for. Like sometime call it also
the iPhone moment. Maybe what what will
be the first use case the first you know
the first moment where everyone or like
a large fraction of population will will
think I want a robot in term of consumer
I mean I I think the enterprise market
is quite complex there is in some place
there is already a lot of robots in some
kind of industry right the car car
manufacturer is the best example then
there is this second part you know where
there is like a an entry of robots and
and here there is a lot of challenge
around reliability will this will these
robots be reliable enough to be deployed
in retail store and basically uh you
know be really useful and but the third
part I'm much more interested in is
actually entertainment fun demo
education where I think maybe this
question around you know I need a $3,000
robots because I need reliability are
less pregnant and so you can take a
robot that's really accessible so each
mini for instance is priced as $300
that's something that can definitely be
like an impulsive buy you buy it as as a
gift and you're not sure if it's going
to work or not. But for this price, what
we want to find is is there not a lot of
uh you know potential in more like
entertainment, fun, education, learning
AI through a physical interaction stuff
instead of just coding, you know, on on
the on a chatbot or coding on a on a
screen and I think that's something that
has not been explored at all. I think
there was a couple of tried I mean the
mid media lab Cynthia did the jibo for
instance but in the past they were
usually priced a bit high I think above
a thousand and more importantly I think
the the software that was there was very
limited so you would buy a robots that
would be fun but you you had maybe five
or 10 behaviors and once you've tried
them all that's it I mean it's finished
and here the goal for each mini is
really to make kind of almost like a
smartphone so it comes you have a couple
of behaviors But just because you can
tweak it and people can build new
behavior and share them and plug all the
new VLN speech models chat model
actually the possibility are kind of
endless. It's kind of a open door on
like rebuilding you know the app store
of iPhone basically. So that's what I'm
very excited and to be honest this last
part is still very much a bet because
nothing exists there like there is no
like real proof. Major scenes are all
this exponential growth of community
which make it quite plausible. So, you
see Ricky Mini as like the, you know,
the reincarnation of the the robot dog
uh dogs of the 90s. Um, was like how
people can actually play and experiment
and, you know, have like these robot
companions in in households.
>> I mean, to be fair, this one is a big
bet, but something I was discussing just
yesterday actually on robotics at at
Tech Barbecue. Someone was telling me as
as an investor, you know, how just see
so many many startups just already being
built on top of robot just you know
people who are like they want to build
something they have this idea of of a
manual test they can automate or they
have an idea of something they could do
in the physical world and then they they
take the robot they take already like
the basic building blocks we've shipped
which is just a robotic a very simple
robotic arm S100 that we designed
basically to be the cheapest robotic arm
to be $100 and They're already like
trying to start business around this to
start like to sell something around this
and rich mini is also in a way designed
for that. It's a very white simple robot
kind of a white labelled thing and if
you want to adapt it and if you think
hey I have a business idea around this
but I need a robot to interact with
people I don't know in hospital or
something like that you can take this
and you can actually start to build your
and that's at at the bottom you know
it's the face ethos which is you bring
all these platform all these basic
building blocks for people to build
really crazy things on top and robotics
is the same goal for us
>> really cool I want to talk about data as
a bottleneck like I think one of the big
differences between language and
robotics is you have trillions of tokens
out in the public internet uh to train
OLMs. That dynamic doesn't exist in
robotics and actually I think that's
where hugging faces role in the
ecosystem could be much more interesting
in terms of uh decentralized data set
curation creation. Um talk about what's
happening on the on the data set side of
the robot.
>> Yeah, it's super interesting I think. So
I mean there's a couple of challenge in
robotics and I mean the general the main
challenge is in the data. There's just
not enough data. There there is some
ways to use video on the internet as
training data but it's very limited. Um
and in in some way we we may be able to
use models but in in some other if you
want to automate a task there is no way
around just recording someone or the
robots possibly just doing the task. I I
think here there is there is one
possibility and one limitation. I mean
the main limitation is you can record a
lot of task yourself but usually what
you will lack a lot is the diversity. So
you will basically be able to train a
robot to do something very well in your
room when everything looks the same but
on once you put it in the next door room
where maybe the walls are green instead
of red the robots has a lot of troubles
to generalize. So this is this is the
main limitation. And so our idea with
the hub was that everyone could record
data sets and if we managed to uh
incentivize them to share the data then
we could maybe build a very like
multicolored data set that would like
multi multilocation data set that would
be extremely diverse you know and in
addition hopefully would be also very
big. So I would say that's a long-term
goal and we hope this can help. But
another more direct things we try to do
is to work also directly with the actors
of the community. So we release a couple
of of data set to to try to help them
releasing some data set. I think in
robotics one of the nice aspect is a lot
of people in the end want to sell the
hardware and so they can actually afford
to even more than LLM they can afford to
share a bit on of the software as
opensource if it brings all the field
above because in the end that's not
really directly what they sell so that
that's kind of what I'm trying to
convince a lot of robotics company to do
and surprisingly it's actually something
a lot of them seems to be interested in
>> super interesting you tweeted out world
models the other day I think you and I
met the same world model founder. Um
what what's happening in the world model
open source and how how does that help
or not help what's going to happen in
robotics?
>> And can I ask on that too? Is there a
why now in world models at the moment?
Because it feels like they've started to
pop up recently.
>> So what is interesting is it's it feel
like it's a couple of teams who have
been actually working on that
independently for for a few months and
they just happen to release this right
now, right? Because when you talk about
all of them, they are not really copying
each other. I mean I guess one thing was
uh the the advent of really cool really
good image generation and basically
finally understanding how to fix this uh
six finger of things and basically just
get a more reliable and more you know
coherent world model for for image which
naturally was transposed to to video and
so we see now some really cool video
models as well and this one is just is
just one next step and and a lot of the
founders I've talked to in this field
also say that there for health by the
advance of like open source video model
generation and to open source image
generation and basically they take this
video generation model and then they
fine-tune them and then they train them
to be able to react to some inputs which
is also what we do in robotics. There's
a lot of common points between these two
thing and uh and it seems to work quite
well. So you start to have this kind of
very interesting in my opinion totally
new experience where you actually have a
film that's controllable that's like
photo both photo realistic and also
reacting in a very you know coherent way
to the action you will input which is
either just moving around or just asking
it to add something you know add a rider
castle car driving and you see this
thing that that just react very well and
you have here I think a lot of potential
application, you know, both obviously an
entertainment actually some form of
entertainment that might be just totally
new, something we've never seen, which
is maybe the first time we create a new
form of really virtual entertainment,
but also a lot of application in
business and how you can have
interactive thing and one of these
downstream application is is generating
more data for robots. I mean there is
just two way to generate data. one is to
record it in the real world which I
think is still very interesting and the
other is to simulate it and surprisingly
on the simulation we have not seen a lot
of you know I mean there was some
development but it's not like there've
been some really breakthrough recently
on simulation so maybe this is the first
breakthrough I've seen on simulated
generated data in quite some time
>> yeah I was very excited to see some of
the even like what deep mind's doing
with Genie to train to train their
embodied robots super exciting humanoids
do you believe in humanoids as the kind
of ultimate form factor.
>> Yeah, big debates. Big debates. What is
sure is uh I'm I'm quite more excited
about trying other form factor right
now. The I mean the main the main
problem with humanity I think there's
two main problem. The first one is it's
always quite expensive just because you
need a lot of models and all the price
in the robots is just the actuator.
That's that's that's always like 70% of
the price tag. And so when you have 60
actuators that's just your bill is here.
And so it's really hard to drive
humanoids below the price of a car. I
think the price of a car is still
already quite a high requirement. If you
if you buy something as the price of a
car, you do expect to have a lot of
value out of it, right? And so um and so
that's why we're exploring like smaller
smaller robot like just one arm or just
a moving head and this type of thing.
There is some possibility that we get
can get cheaper you manually at some
point and Kc scale was trying to do unit
trees they've been trying to to cut the
price and there's a lot of a lot of
company try to aim but it's going to be
really hard I think to to get this under
like 10k $10,000 something like that um
the nice thing about the humanoid of
course is once you've solved the human
you solve like a lot of task at the same
time so if you solve the manoid you can
you can do everything a human do which
is very exciting uh and and the main
question is do you need to solve the
humanoid So on my side I'm more like I
would like to see you know a galaxy of
different form factors. I also think
some of them are much more cute than the
humanoid. I think for social adoption I
think the humanities is also asking a
lot from people right it's like this
you're directly in this kind of ankelly
valley where it's something that looks a
lot like you moves a lot like you so I
thought this would be a big limits for
for social adoption now to be honest
I've seen a lot of unitary robots I
don't know about you but you kind of
ignore them at some point so I'm also
much more confident that people will
just say yeah let's just
maybe we're too too worried about the
uncanny valley in robotics and maybe at
some point once we start to have seen
like a a couple of robots, people will
just accept them very very easily.
>> Okay. So, we're going to see the the
robot humanoid soon.
>> I mean, the goal would be if we chime
mini and our small robots work really
well that at some point we'll climb back
to make it the humanitar form factor. I
would say kind of progressively as we've
done bringing the community along with
us.
>> As you imagine the world in 10 years,
like how many robots do you think there
are among us? Do you think it's like 80%
of them are humanoids and then 20% are
this long tail of this diversity of
hardware and use cases or like how do
you think the world plays out?
>> Yeah. And I would love to see the second
option because I think that's an option
where we have much more robots in our
life. What I what I would really not be
super excited about is a future where
kind of robots are kind of a elite thing
because they cost 100,000 and so
basically if you're rich you have you
have three robots at home and if you're
not you don't. I mean, hugging face has
always always been also about the big
community. So, we care about that. And
so, for this reason, I'm much more
excited to see a lot of form factors
that are basically accessible to a lot
of people. Some of them are cheaper,
some of them are more expensive than
just this single humanoid, you know,
that cost a lot. And if you can buy it,
that's nice and if you cannot, too bad
for you. Uh, so I would say at Hugging
Face, that's the future we try to nudge
to push toward. I think also it's much
more fun because you you in a way you're
also restricting yourself just like LLM
if you just try to make them copy human
it's one thing but if you try to think
maybe they can do something that human
cannot do it's also much more
interesting in a way
>> do you think we're heading towards a
world of you know big foundation models
that can kind of do everything and then
be adapted quickly to any new domain
with just like you know a few prompts or
do you think that developers in your
community are going to start from like a
small base model and then do a lot of
their on data collection customization
to adapt to their domains.
>> I think we'll we'll see more and more
both. I mean I think as as the as the
field evolve, you know, we we start to
see really a long tail. So for instance,
if we take the downloads on on hugging
face, we see both like very large
state-of-the-art models being downloaded
which are usually too too large to run
on a local laptop. But we see also some
of the most downloaded models are
actually just the right size that fits
to run quickly on the laptop. So we see
these two like really modality and I
think as you know as the field kind of
mature we we'll we'll start to see this
more and more which is it's not like you
choose one or the other. It's just
depending on what you need you might use
you know one locally or not. And I think
GPD5 with the router is a good example
of this. you know maybe the the largest
model or the most reasoning the longest
reasoning chain is not the answer to
everything and you actually need to
smartly select the one you want. So it
can be behind a router but it can also
be just locally you run some models here
they might be extremely useful and we
know better and better how to train
model that are actually extremely useful
but when you need something much more
complex when you need reflection for a
very long time then you will turn to to
to much larger models. One of the
narratives that's been really popular
over the last few years is this
narrative of the battle between open and
closed. You know, closed models versus
open models, who's going to win? And
just in the last few weeks, Open AI is
now present on HuggingFace. And so I'm
I'm curious what to make of that and
sort of what it might imply about the
future of open versus closed or maybe
how they work together.
>> I mean, we're super happy to welcome
them back. I mean they were they were
there. I mean the first you know the
first model I I worked on and and the
the reason we we switched from being a
game company to an open source platform
was GPT1 which not a lot of people
remember but was very funny because it
was trained mostly on novels and romance
novel. And so when you would put two
character in the continuation they would
all always fall in love and some way on
cute still miss a little bit this one.
and and then and then Google took this
idea and trained it also on Wikipedia
which had a lot of world knowledge and
then he expanded to GPT all of that but
at that time they were very very pro
open source and I think I think open
source just like in software I think
both both solution we just we just
coexist and having company that that
open source both or that that do both I
mean Google has been an example for
quite some time right with the GMA line
and Jiminy line and and some interesting
moments where sometime I heard that one
Gemma model was actually so good that it
was better and closed source models. So
they had to not open source it. So the
frontier what is true is quite seen at
the moment in a way and the challenging
you know u challenging new players
mostly in China but I think we we we'll
start to see also some new foundation
models team in the US. So I think we we
we might see also some challenge in the
US. The frontier will stay quite seen I
think and both both think we'll see with
a tiny difference of of performance. The
main reason right now I think is um to
be honest at at this exact point of time
I think we're not exactly in a kind of
cost-saving time of AI. So so which
means that for a lot of actors I think
moving to open source because it save
cost is not the most important thing for
them. So usually they move to open
source right now because they want data
privacy. They want to be able to adapt
to the model. They have maybe have a new
idea or new new know like this this
action model for instance. they have a
new idea of something that does not
exist and they want to do that. So
that's usually what we see right now. So
we see a lot of emulsion of new of new
of new exploration in open source way.
What I do expect is as as we go to a
more mature market as well then the cost
and and being able to run it maybe on
faster hardware or this type of other
hardware and then being able to earn the
model and to own also the full stack of
where the models run become actually
more and more important. So I think just
like in software I think in the long
term open source is kind of a winning
solution for many for many um
application for many use case but we're
still in like the turbulence place.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you think hugging face's role in
the LLM ecosystem has evolved as you
know the these models have pushed at the
frontier and there's there's closed
models. I I remember back when it would
be like you could download the small
Burke model on hugging face and run it
locally, right? And that was um that was
a lot of the the usage. Um how has your
business evolved now that we're going
towards you know as you mentioned models
that are too too large to run on
consumer hardware and how do you see
hugging faces really evolving?
>> I mean surprisingly I was doing these
stats uh at the end of last year this
burst model is still really used a lot.
So a surprisingly interesting aspect of
open source is also resiliency which is
once you have something that worked that
really work in production you may not
want to be forced to move to the new GPT
right I mean that was a little bit of
the backslash around GPT5 you know just
people actually wanted to keep using
GP40 for many things maybe they fell in
love with this or was their main friends
and some Reddit post was around this but
also maybe they just had their like
application which work really well and
they don't want to redesign it I think
open source I the the long-term interest
for us is also to provide this very
stable base like you build something you
know it will exist and you know you can
keep this as a very stable b and in
general I think in in the community our
our role has switched um progressively
from
maybe pushing ourself a lot of things
pushing our library pushing our you know
our early product to more like enabling
more and more the community in general
so we we work now a lot with many many
actors of the community we work a lot
with lama CPP we work a lot with VLM we
work a lot with all the big players to
try to see you know how how this whole
ecosystem can be very efficient can work
really well so like one model is
released you want to be able to use it
directly in BLM you want to be able to
use it directly in LASP so we try to
have more and more this kind of role of
uh um meta community builder where we
try to align and to bring maybe all the
players you know at the same pace and to
to help them move in the same way. So in
a way we are much more focused on the on
the community on the hub than we were
maybe a couple of years ago.
>> Really cool. What do you think about
what's happening? You mentioned you know
China's had a lot of the open models
recently like why do you think that is
happening? Um and what is the state of
open model development in the west?
>> Yeah this is the most surprising thing
that happened I think in the last two
years right the fact that China would
become a champion of open source. Who
would have predicted that in 2020s,
right? Uh and and so I've been uh you
know, I've I've been actually visiting
them uh two weeks ago to try to
understand a bit better on the ground
how how it's happening. And the thing is
just it's a very very competitive market
internally. There's a lot of teams there
that are extremely good and it reminded
me in some way of Silicon Valley. people
are are are working extremely hard and
they compete with each other all of
these model provider and one part on
which they compete which is surprising
is is being the most open is the the
open source aspect so they're extremely
proud of being very open and some of
this company and that stopped being open
when was called Zepu they decided to not
open source it and they saw an immediate
backlash I think mostly on hiring like
people didn't want to come work there
anymore and so they went back to open
sourcing so it's quite strong now I
would say strong in brain. So I would
expect this to continue. I would expect
also quite more team to come because I
see a lot of you know I mean we see that
as well right when you when you have the
presentation of GPT5 like a lot of
people are you know actually uh did the
study some of them at Sinuay University
right we we know the the the team are
here also uh you know partly uh partly
with Chinese members. So, so they have
extremely extremely strong people and
they and they all really want to to
train the the best model. Um, what I
think is interesting is to see the west
kind of coming back to open source very
recently to be honest, just over the
summer, right? But this call for open
sourcing, OpenAI decided to come back.
Now, we're just waiting for Entropic to
maybe open source their first model. So,
I think it's time to try to ask them to
to participate. Um, yeah, I would say
right now the the situation for Oppos is
um is pretty good, but uh but yeah, it's
never like it's it's like the Jedi and
Star Wars. It's never won. We have to
keep we have to keep pushing this. We
have to keep pushing our flag of
openness.
>> What's driving the resurgence of open
source in the west?
>> Yeah, I think one thing is um when you
have in a way nothing to lose, open
source is always a good solution when
you're on your team. So it can be for
instance you create a new company and
you want to quickly rise to the top the
new open source your model right that's
the mistral recipe how can you very
quickly became a great player but for
the Chinese for instance it's also for
instance in the west almost nobody will
use a Chinese API so they don't sell API
in the west anyway so in a way they have
nothing to lose you know from the
western market by open sourcing their
market there so I think I think there is
this thing at as players so and the
consequence of that is also that when
nobody's open source, it's like a
market. There is a an interest for
someone to take the room, right? To say
we're going to be the open source
player. So Meta was this open source
player when everyone kind of stop open
sourcing. And I I feel like there will
always be this thing when some people
stop open sourcing and then there is
actually a gap to being the only, you
know, the new top opensource actor, then
someone will want to fill this void.
Thomas, you mentioned that, you know,
Western companies won't use a Chinese
model over, you know, Chinese API. What
about um are you saying western
companies are actually willing or not
willing to use Chinese open models when
it's you know the weights and you know
hosted on on US servers like is is there
still hesitance to to do that? Um and is
it wellounded or not?
>> I don't see that a lot to be honest. I
mean it's it's a good question. I try to
do regular polls. So I try to ask a lot
of people regularly you know what do you
think about that because it can be for
sure a concern right there was when deep
sea came out and there was a very nice
uh uncensored model from from from
Perplexity for instance um the thing is
in many business case I don't think
people really notice anything you know
um so I think there is more a general
appetite for people to have a better way
to understand
um like the safety of a model but I
would say it's quite general people have
are a little bit worried about having a
a model that maybe will behave strangely
in some cases and so I think this is
this is a general thing that a lot of
company have been asking which is can
you guarantee this model will always
behave well which we know is really hard
because you know even with GPT sometime
you you ask the number of R in
strawberry and it's just behaving badly
and you're like why you're very smart
you should be able to know that so I
think this is a general thing that that
is needed soon um and there's couple of
teams is working on that for sure.
>> Can we talk about open science?
>> Yeah, we build LLM like human. But what
if you know an AI model could could see
infrared, could see some radiation, we
cannot. This is things that human cannot
do. So it's already superhuman and for
science is actually super interesting.
So a lot of the AI model for science are
already super human in a way because
they can actually either see modality or
predict thing that are just inaccessible
to to human and it's good I think it's a
good ground to think outside of like the
human limitation of what we can what we
can do.
>> Well and you've been you've been pretty
passionate about open science for a
while. So can you just say a word about
what is open science? What role does
hugging face have to play and and where
does your passion for it come from? For
me it started a a very long time ago. So
before I give I was a lawyer but before
being a lawyer I was a researcher in
physics. So I was working on this
superconductive material and and
surprisingly in superconductive material
a lot of the great research had been
done by the Soviets back in Soviet Union
and and these people had I mean you know
Soviet researcher have a very different
way of inventing theory than the western
world has and so they had some really
great idea and some really interesting
thing but I had to find this invention
or this theory. I had to find them back
to track them down in the Soviet GTP
letters and some of them were even still
in Russian. And so from this time I got
this idea that damn accessing knowledge
is hard and if I can make this easier
that's going to unlock a lot of really
cool stuff. If I could just find where
you know that's this equation comes from
and really be able to read this article
that would be crazy. And so when I
joined computer science I discovered
archive I discovered open source. I was
like this is really cool. Everything's
just free basically. Everyone just share
things. It's written in English.
Everyone can read it. It's even free. Uh
you don't even have to buy the
publication. Uh and I was very excited
about that until until I started to try
to reproduce one deep mind paper and I
discovered that there was a limit
because people publish what they want to
publish but they don't really give you
all the tricks of the trade, right? And
so when you try to reproduce that you
discover that it just doesn't work. And
so open science for me was this
extension which is it's nice to give
open models to people so they can build
things on top but it's even better to
explain how to train a model you know is
a thing it's nice to give a fish to
someone to feed them it's even better to
teach them to fish and that's basically
what we want to do we think in the very
long term AI is going to be such a
fundamental technology that basically it
should be just like physics should be
something everyone could learn by
reading a book like if you want to learn
today about general relativity you can
read a book and you can know about it,
right? You don't have to pay to get
access. I mean, you you buy the book or
you find it, but that's that's basically
free access. I think AI all the recipe
to train an intelligent
uh object or or artifact should also be
something that everyone should know. So,
I mean that's the very long-term thing,
but the very shortterm thing is if we
teach people how to train great models,
then they bring great models on the hub
and then we have much great content to
offer. So it's kind of also just content
providing if we provide great model it's
nice and so one example that we do for
that is we we write very long blog posts
we that some of them even become books
uh we just published the books this
summer on how to train on a thousand GPU
and how to balance the load and how to
do all of this parallelism thing another
very long blog post we wrote was around
how to make a very good quality data set
and so we we made a data set to
pre-train the models it's called fine
web and it's used in a lot of the recent
model the quen models the set of they
use fine wave for instance in part and
then we also wrote how we build this
data set how we filter it what is
important to understand when you want to
build great data to train models so all
of these I think just go together and
for us is a way to basically bring just
better better open source AI models in
in honey phase
>> I want to go back to your physics and
superconducting comments like it feels
like you know a lot of the AGI labs
believe that AI actually disrupting
science is not that far out. Um there's
been some exciting discoveries I think
in well I think there's been exciting uh
evidence so far in math and then maybe
extending into physics material science
like do you think we're going to see an
inflection point in scientific discovery
from these models and um what do you
think open source's role will be in in
driving that
>> as always it's nice there's there is
some hype here because then it drives
people but I think sometime we
overestimate what's happening I mean
math is a good example right there was
this this idea um AI is doing new new
new proof for some math theorem and
that's like inventing new science. I
think as as a scientist myself I think
that's really the wrong way to view
science. Um the reason is I was a bad
scientist so I can tell about that. So I
was a very good student. So when you
give me a problem I'm always pretty sure
I can find the proof. I can find the
thing but but I know this thing has a
solution. So I just have to you know
fill the gap and and and kind of grab a
couple of things I know and then combine
them together. And when I became a
researcher I discovered that I was a
pretty bad researcher because basically
what I was not able to do was I was not
able to ask the right the right
question. So if somebody asked me a
question say can you demonstrate this
theorem I could do it but if someone say
okay what is interesting to explore now
in math I had no idea basically and so
in science the main thing you need to do
if you want to do I am talking about big
big breakthrough right is you need to
ask the right question you need to find
a way to ask a question nobody has asked
before and a question that will open a
whole new field of research and that's
basically a noble field a Nobel prize
noble price is typically someone who
just open a new field of research
because this person just asked the right
question is maybe you know maybe the the
speed of light the speed of light should
be the constant and and let's let's
explore what does it mean and it means
actually we can create general
relativity and then we can invance black
hole out of it and I think LLM right now
are still extremely bad at this thing at
this kind of a tasteful way to ask the
right question which doesn't mean we
cannot do really cool stuff with them
but the way I see them nowadays is
really more as very useful helpers So
once you have human research we say this
is something interesting to study then
you can use them to actually multiply by
10 100 or thousand the prediction you
can do you can use them to quickly do a
a full survey of what has been done in
the past on this molecule this protein
you can you can use them to say okay
what would be you know the most logical
way to to test this this hypothesis but
I still see this as kind of accelerator
and assistant of of of scientific
research then what I would love to see
which is an AI that would say hey I have
an idea on how to go faster than light
but for this you cannot just write the
answer on how to go faster than light
you have to ask the right question what
should we trench to today's theory or
what should we do uh you know today what
should we uh reconsider to to invent
something that's ground that as
groundbreaking as that
>> to your point on asking the right
questions what do you think are the
interesting questions in the world of AI
right now or maybe the questions that
people are not asking that they should
be asking.
>> I mean this this is one question I think
and it's related to something we talk a
lot which is this um single fancy which
is tendency of of AI models to always
agree with you. I think uh I think uh a
good researcher is actually a good
example of person who disagree for a lot
of people. my former professor who was a
Nobel Prize was very not friendly in how
he would disc
but I think that's part of it you have
to be extremely opinionated so finding a
way that this you know to to push this
model to have maybe in a way stronger
opinion or maybe a taste in their
opinion or like I think for science will
be a key and it may of course this will
be based on deep learning and LLM but it
may it may involve other way to train
them other way to to to think about
Um I think that's that's that's one of
the big question I think not not a lot
there is a couple of people exploring
that but not a lot of people are
exploring.
>> Okay. When you see the world in 10 years
like what what what is Hugging Face's
role in it? How much of your community
you think is building with LLMs with
robotics? I know it's hard to think in
10 year time spans but what what do you
think the world looks like in 10 years?
>> Yeah 10 years is very very different. I
mean what I would love to see is in 10
years a world where basically everyone
feel like they can build with AI and not
they're just consuming AI but they feel
like they can be actor of of this thing
a little bit like you know the the
difference between uh we used to have a
lot of media that were generating and
created for us and then we moved to the
current era where everyone is actually
able to create media and we saw that
this creates a whole new generation of
people and and YouTubers and influencers
and people actually making extremely
interesting content and and I would love
AI being the same which is like a very a
very big community like the software
developer community where everyone can
create things with AI and they feel like
it's just another tool in their box.
They can code stuff but they can also
train a model and they can mess with
maybe adapt the model. So the nice thing
about that is I'm a big believer in
basically the creativity and natural
invention of just the community. I think
it's something that's very beautiful to
witness. So in 10 years I hope that
people are not just consuming you know
AI content and not doing anything but
they're actually exerting their
creativity to build really nice thing
with a lot of AI tools around them. I to
be honest that's something that I think
that's kind of what we're building right
now. So I'm quite optimistic. This thing
is going to change a lot of things for
society in general because a lot of this
job will just be different.
>> It's a beautiful vision. Thomas, thank
you so much for joining us today. We
really enjoyed this chat.
>> Thanks. It was a pleasure.
[Music]